+++
date = "2011-09-03T21:53:06-05:00"
description = "One easy way to simplify your Log Parser queries is to use the USING clause."
title = "Understanding the USING clause in Log Parser"
updated = "2011-09-03T21:54:07-05:00"

+++

<p>If you've been using Log Parser for any amount of time you're probably well versed with <code>SELECT</code>, <code>FROM</code> and <code>WHERE</code>.</p>

<p>Looking at a <code>SELECT</code> clause against IIS logs, you may find something that looks like the following:</p>

<pre><code>SELECT TO_DATE(TO_LOCALTIME(TO_TIMESTAMP(date, time))) AS [LocalDate]
    , TO_TIME(TO_LOCALTIME(TO_TIMESTAMP(date, time))) AS [LocalTime]
    , c-ip, cs-uri-stem, cs-uri-query, sc-status, sc-bytes, cs-bytes, time-taken
    , cs(User-Agent), cs(Referer)
[...]
</code></pre>

<p>Here we're taking the <code>date</code> and <code>time</code> stored in the W3C logs as UTC and converting them to local time. We repeat a couple of items, specifically <code>TO_LOCALTIME(TO_TIMESTAMP(date, time))</code>.</p>

<p>In addition, if we want to use <code>LocalTimeDate</code> or <code>LocalTimeTime</code> in our <code>WHERE</code> clause we'll find that we can't.</p>

<p>Let's modify our query slightly by taking advantage of the <code>USING</code> clause. Since we have that expression we'd like to use in multiple places that's the best place to start.</p>

<pre><code>SELECT TO_DATE(localDateTime) AS [LocalDate]
    , TO_TIME(localDateTime) AS [LocalTime]
    , c-ip, cs-uri-stem, cs-uri-query, sc-status, sc-bytes, cs-bytes, time-taken
    , cs(User-Agent), cs(Referer)
USING TO_LOCALTIME(TO_TIMESTAMP(date, time)) AS [localDateTime]
[...]
</code></pre>

<p>We've started by adding a <code>USING</code> immediately after the <code>SELECT</code> (before <code>INTO</code> or <code>FROM</code>). We then declared an alias just like we'd do in the <code>SELECT</code>. In this case we're creating an alias for our shared expression. With this done we can replace the corresponding expressions within the <code>SELECT</code>.</p>

<p>Now that we have our alias defined by the <code>USING</code> clause we can use it in our <code>WHERE</code> clause.</p>

<pre><code>WHERE [localDateTime] &gt; TO_TIMESTAMP('2011-09-01', 'yyyy-MM-dd')
</code></pre>

<p>Putting complex expressions in the <code>USING</code> clause - like <code>CASE cs-uri-query WHEN null THEN cs-uri-stem ELSE STRCAT(STRCAT(cs-uri-stem, '?'), cs-uri-query) END AS [fullUrl]</code> - can help keep your <code>SELECT</code> nice and concise.</p>

<p>Generally, if you find yourself using an expression in more than one place in your query, ask yourself if it makes sense to move it into the <code>USING</code> clause.</p>

<h3>How do you use the USING clause?</h3>

<p>Do you have complex expressions you typically put within a <code>USING</code> clause? If so, please leave them in the comments, along with the log format.</p>
</div>

Article provided by <a href="http://jamesrskemp.com/" rel="external author">James Skemp</a>.
